Our releases can be found on Bandcamp.


MINRECS001: Ipomea Violacea - Murrmurr 
            ‘Data murmurs. It is just a matter of directing our attention towards it’.
             With these words, Ipomea Violacea invites us to listen to her algorithmic fragments, 
             inaugurating the Miniature Recs formula.
             
             
MINRECS002: Kuhn Kuhn – Syntagma 
            Syntagma is a selection of microscopic compositions stemming from the same algorithmic blueprint. 
            ‘I’ve always been interested in working with such a constrained temporal limit’ 
            – told us Kuhn Kuhn – 
            ‘a lot of things can be expressed by slightly variating few parameters, 
            while keeping the same overall structure among the variations. 
            It is an extremely fascinating process of discovery’.
            
            
MINRECS003: Geophaga – Flashbacks 
            Geophaga's works employ algorithmic procedures with the aim of exploring and understanding human experiences through a different sonic lens.
            ‘With the Flashback sequences, I was trying to retrace back my experiences of dysphoria’. 
            The same arc made of swarms of ‘digital mosquitoes’ recur over and over through different microtonal harmonies, 
            s a persistent thought that intoxicates the senses. 
            ‘Listening to these tracks still makes me very uncomfortable, 
            yet I think they are able to depict the nauseated feeling of waking up every day and not matching your expectations, 
            seeing reality from a disjointed identity’.


MINRECS004: Edith Dahl – Fell Studies
            ‘Mark Fell has been an extremely influential artist during my formative years. 
             His conception of time disclosed many creative ideas to deal with rhythmic patterns in algorithmic music; 
             that’s why I decided to dedicate this series of snippets to him. 
             Nevertheless, I think this work also strongly reflects the aesthetic vision I developed during the pandemic period. 
             Sharpness, rugosity, and formal unevenness in clear gestalts are what thrills me most as a listener, 
             therefore they have become the prominent features of my approach to microsound’.
             
             
MINRECS005: Anneli Kokko – Eleven Clusters
            Anneli Kokko’s production revolves around noise tuning, a process she sees as a therapeutic discipline: 
            ‘Whereas most of composers conceive harmony as a sum of elements, I think that as a selection process: a purification. 
            By filtering chaos, it is possible to reach any kind of harmony. 
            My activity is to find and classify the infinite harmonic relationships that can be discovered in the depths of pure noise, 
            tracing gradients of order’.
           

MINRECS006: Riccardo Ancona – Miniata Synaxis
            Miniata Synaxis is music for an impossible liturgy, an imaginary gathering of praying monks where the tropes of polyphony have been 
            sabotaged by an exuberant xenharmonic compositional style. These twenty-six miniatures – or rather, ‘vespers’ – 
            have been written for a physical model of an organ Riccardo Ancona designed to be controlled through a live coding environment.
            ‘I am extremely delighted by the playfulness emerging from algorithmic counterpoint’ – tells us Riccardo – 
            ‘I enjoy conceiving intricate, absurd, quasi-dysfunctional canons that exceed human’s performative capability, 
            because the perceptual effect, at least for me, is a grotesque sense of amazement. 
            Polyphonic complexity is often seen as a serious matter, although it has a whimsical side that I try to disclose’.
            
           
MINRECS007: Tamura Kaori – Kaeru No Ike 
            'When I was a kid I lived near a pond full of frogs. Their croaking was the ordinary soundscape of my childhood. 
            I think my timbral and dynamical sensibility has been largely influenced by the way they modulated sound. 
            This is algorithmic frog music.' – Tamura Kaori


MINRECS008: Qiu Zhuru Chen – Scatter Engine
            Restless, abiding motion with no real change. This is the vision of reality for Qiu Zhuru Chen, 
            as well as the starting point for Scatter Engine, a record of algorithmic plunderphonics that focuses on a specific kinetic behavior,
            exploring its psycho-perceptual properties through infinite internal micro-variations.


MINRECS009: Aisyah Ramkhelawan – Data Regions
            An onkyo sensibility on concrete sounds meets algorithmic concatenative music in the works of Aisyha Ramkhelawan. 
            She employs machine listening procedures as a way to explore carefully crafted databases of small sounds, 
            rendering her music-making a cartographic expedition into unknown data regions.


MINRECS010: Alonso Javier Iturralde Ortega de la Fuente Ramírez – Cascadas
            Inspired by geometrical tessellation, Cascadas superimposes countless sonic tiles in infinite Escher-like stairway glissandos that play with psychoacoustic illusions.
            “I built this cascading algorithm by applying distorted harmonic series to temporal relationships instead of thinking it as a mere harmonic-timbral structure. “ 
            – tells us Alsonso – “What in pitch sounds like harmonicity, in rhythm turns into a complex polymetry. 
            I love exploring what happens when you translate these kind of phenomena in different domains”.


MINRECS011: Colin Drake – oneline
            Writing an effective musical code in just one line is a classic challenge in the Supercollider community, 
            where coders try to condense ideas by the means of brevity, simplicity, and syntactic sugar. 
            This release collects multiple one-line compositions realized by Colin Drake, programmer and musician based in Austin, Texas, 
            whose interest for miniatures reflects an aesthetic perspective on process-based composition: 
            “While each individual piece is potentially endless, the recordings here present merely a minute window of audio, 
            mirroring the short programs written to create them."


MINRECS012: Delve – Non​-​organic entities with potential degree of individuality
            Jamming in a custom-trained latent space, through the blurred remnants of grooves, 
            the weighted averages of mel-spectra by which othernesses spawn, 
            discombombulatingly jagged contours of FFTs and shards of broken transients where phases misalign, 
            opening portals to auditory becomings waiting to be unraveled, 
            unannounced meta-entities that briefly occur before dissolving in gaussian noise, 
            unstable, volatile, fleeting, cursory vanishing, precarious, momentary, 
            evanescent acoustemologies manifesting unattended – but not unprecedented, that would be preposterous – behaviours, 
            local singularities in the stochastic mesh transpiring regardless, regardless, 
            regardlessly of what we expect or await or project conjectures upon in our reckonings, 
            here they come, in their befogging guise I don’t pretend to outline.


MINRECS013: Lime68k – Isolat
            Isolat is a work of dark FFT alchemies by Rennes-based Lime68k, 
            a computer musician whose unconventional approach is proposing a radical perspective on digital sound. 
            These five miniatures manifest different stages of the same spectral figure getting increasingly smudged by an invisible force, 
            until it melts in a rumbling, greasy smear. This music feels like it’s not happening for your entertainment, 
            an obscure computational procedure that goes on its own, offering a sensible access point to unknown machine ontologies.


MINRECS014: Shoshana Vajda – Wicca Diffusion
            A mysterious Hungarian mystic named Shoshana Vajda wrote to the label’s mail proposing a release of neural network ritualistic binaural soundscapes. 
            Shoshana, a self-defined witch and PyTorch programmer, understands deep learning synthesis not as generation but as conjuration: 
            “The entity transforming noise into a sonic phantasmagoria is truly a numerical demon; 
            engineers conjure these demons from the infinite realm of statistic inference. 
            The artist, in dialogue with the demon, is a mystical medium that tries to establish a connection with the stochastic domain 
            and translates back her experience into intelligible forms. It is data witchcraft. I call my practice ‘Wicca Diffusion’”.


MINRECS015: Synalegg – MOLT
            The French composer Synalegg is known for developing expressive and compelling programs for generating entirely procedural IDM music, 
            small custom-built environments that explore the combinatorial potential of musical parameter spaces.
            Inspired by the Miniature Recs format, he designed MOLT, an epigrammatic algorithmic program that generates a pattern and transforms its spectral, 
            temporal, and tonal features over the course of a minute, “the original motif being modified by mutation into another sound material, like a molting process”.
            In this release you can find just a handful of possible instances of the program, each one manifesting its own identity; 
            yet, by listening to them sequentially, you might recognize they come out of the same blueprint. 
            They are single points from an extremely larger distribution of musical possibilities.
            Such a shift of perspectives, from composing a linear piece to defining a field of possible configurations coming from a formalized vector space,
            is arguably the conceptual leap that lead from integral serialism to computer-assisted composition and later to algorithmic music. 
            It is enthralling to see this tradition to be prosecuted by artists like Synalegg with a renewed aesthetic and a contemporary understanding of musical programming tools.
            The music coming out of MOLT has sharp edges, yet it evolves fluidly, at the threshold between angular, discrete patterns and continuous spectral morphologies,
            like a geometric surface transforming its topology in time driven by inner autonomous forces.


MINRECS016: Okamoto Junto – Treadmill Music 
            Writing about Okamoto Junto is an odd undertaking as his music is typically self-explanatory. 
            Variations in ultraminimalist procedures unfold in time until the process reveals itself as pure gestalt. 
            His approach aims at optimizing composition up to its ultimate reduction: 
            a single shift in a parameter induces a sensible phenomenon through which the entire work is expressed. 
            Treadmill Music does it by offsetting in time mundane sounds, causing interlocking patterns to emerge in-between the notions of rhythm and phase. 
            Though, if you ask him, Treadmill Music is all about his fitness routine: 
            “A couple of years ago I built a custom omnidirectional treadmill synced with a VR headset so that I could run in fictional spaces. 
            I struggled finding the right music, until I decided to design a little algorithm with all the features I was looking for. 
            Treadmill Music is a direct export of my running app”.


MINRECS017: Eczem – De Novo Variants
            Each piece of De Novo Variants feels like a different refraction of the same semi-transparent polygonal object, observed from divergent angles. 
            Elliott Watson, in art Eczem, composer and co-curator of the computer music label 3OP, designed these five miniatures as mutations of each other, 
            taking inspiration from polymorphic behaviors that can be observed in the natural world.
            Just like in the natural world – from which algorithmic music is not separated, but rather a peculiar sub-domain – 
            emerging forms appear from a mixture of strict numerical laws, chance, and contigency, 
            the creative process underlying this work combines procedural rigor and spontaneous playfulness. 
            “Grooves were intentionally left broken”, tells us Elliott, and “glitches and missteps were embraced as part of the experience”, 
            although the computational provenance of the sounds remains tangible. 
            It is precisely the semi-generative quality of De Novo Variants that makes it a captivating listening; 
            it compels you to repeatedly loop through the tracks and appreciate how difference and repetition synergize.



